[Music]
Transform, mask, and color correction
are three essential editing tools that
help you customize how your videos look
and feel. Each tool serves a different
purpose: positioning, shaping, and
enhancing your content. And together,
they give you full creative control over
layout, visibility, and visual tone. To
access these tools, open the clip
inspector in the toolbar. You'll find
all three available in the same panel.
Transform lets you display multiple
clips on screen at once by adjusting
their scale and position. It's also
commonly used to zoom in on a clip if
you want a tighter framing than what was
originally filmed. To use it, stack the
clips you want in the timeline, then
open the clip inspector. Here you can
modify the clip's position, size,
rotation, and opacity using sliders or
by dragging it directly in the preview
window.
Keep in mind that transform settings
don't carry over between aspect ratios,
giving you full control to customize
each format individually. This
flexibility ensures your content looks
just right on every screen.
[Music]
Mask is a feature that allows you to
crop your clips in a more flexible way
by defining a custom visible area,
effectively hiding everything outside of
it. This is useful when layering clips
and wanting to focus attention on a
specific part of the frame. Use mask to
highlight, hide, or combine visual
elements.
Just like with transform, mask effects
don't carry over between aspect ratios
by design. This gives you the
flexibility to customize the framing for
each format so your content looks its
best on every screen.
Color correction lets you fine-tune the
look of your video by adjusting
brightness, contrast, exposure, hue, and
saturation.
Whether you're correcting lighting
issues or creating a specific visual
style, these tools help set the tone.
[Music]
Unlike the other two tools, color
correction is applied universally across
all aspect ratios, saving you time when
exporting your project in multiple
formats.
As you may have noticed, there's a
button labeled copy effects above. This
copies all effects from the clip
directly above, such as transform, mask,
or color correction, and lets you
quickly paste them onto your selected
clip. However, transform and mask
effects are only copied between clips
within the same aspect ratio. They do
not transfer across different formats.
Color correction, on the other hand, is
the only effect that automatically
applies across all aspect ratios, so you
only need to adjust it once.
To paste the effects on Mac, press
command plus V. On Windows, press
control + V. The effects will be applied
instantly to the selected clip. Next to
the copy button, you'll see three dots
that open additional options. The first
option copies just the currently
selected effect. Transform, mask, or
color correction from all aspect ratios
in the current clip.
This means that all your adjustments to
that specific effect across each aspect
ratio like 16-9 and 9-6 will be included
and can be pasted to matching aspects in
other clips.
The second option copies all effects,
transform, mask, and color correction
from all aspect ratios. In other words,
every single adjustment you've made
across all tools and all formats will be
included, giving you a complete package
you can paste onto other clips with one
click.
[Music]